gh-pages/index.md, before:

# What is Baseline?

Web Platform Baseline gives you clear information about which web platform features are ready to use in your projects today. When reading an article, or choosing a library for your project, if the features used are all part of Baseline, you can trust the level of browser compatibility. By aligning with Baseline, there should be no surprises when testing your site.

## How do features become part of Baseline?

Features that are in Baseline are interoperable across a core browser set:

- Chrome (desktop and Android)
- Edge
- Firefox (desktop and Android)
- Safari (macOS and iOS)

Baseline has two stages:

- **Newly available**: The feature becomes supported by all of the core browsers, and is therefore interoperable. Indicated with a blue icon.
- **Widely available**: 30 months has passed since the newly interoperable date. The feature can be used by most sites without worrying about support. Indicated with a green icon.

Features that are newly available can be used with confidence that they work in all the core browsers, however most people will need to consider fallbacks for browsers without support.

Features that are widely available should be considered broadly available for use.

## How do I find the Baseline status of a feature?

Baseline is already displayed for many features on [Can I Use](https://caniuse.com/), [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/), and all features on [webstatus.dev](https://webstatus.dev) so you can see at a glance the status of features. We hope that many other sites will start to use Baseline to clearly explain feature status—from individual blogs to large content sites. Find out how to [use Baseline on your site](use-baseline) and explore some of the places you can already [find Baseline](baseline-in-the-wild).

## Who owns Baseline?

The Baseline definition and the feature grouping work that decides if features are part of Baseline is owned by the [Web Features Owners Group](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/blob/main/GOVERNANCE.md) and discussed in the [WebDX Community Group](webdx-cg).

## Learn more

To learn more about the background of Baseline, its goals, audience, and more, see the [full Baseline definition](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/blob/main/docs/baseline.md).

Commit message:

Apply suggestions from code review
Co-authored-by: Daniel D. Beck <daniel@ddbeck.com>
Co-authored-by: Patrick Brosset <patrickbrosset@gmail.com>

gh-pages/index.md, after:

# What is Baseline?

Web Platform Baseline gives you clear information about which web platform features are ready to use in your projects today. When reading an article, or choosing a library for your project, if the features used are all part of Baseline, you can trust the level of browser compatibility. By aligning with Baseline, there should be no surprises when testing your site.

## How do features become part of Baseline?

Features that are in Baseline are interoperable across the following core browser set:

- Chrome (desktop and Android)
- Edge
- Firefox (desktop and Android)
- Safari (macOS and iOS)

Baseline has two stages:

- **Newly available**: The feature becomes supported by all of the core browsers, and is therefore interoperable. Indicated with a blue icon.
- **Widely available**: 30 months has passed since the newly interoperable date. The feature can be used by most sites without worrying about support. Indicated with a green icon.

Features that are newly available can be used with confidence that they work in all the core browsers, however most people will need to consider fallbacks for browsers without support.

Features that are widely available should be considered broadly available for use.

## How do I find the Baseline status of a feature?

You can find at-a-glance Baseline statuses on [Can I Use](https://caniuse.com/) feature entries, [MDN Web Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/) reference pages, and [webstatus.dev](https://webstatus.dev). See [Baseline in the wild](baseline-in-the-wild) for more examples.

You can [use Baseline on your site](use-baseline) too.

## Who owns and maintains Baseline?

The Baseline definition is written by the [web-features owners group](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/blob/main/GOVERNANCE.md).

Feature definitions are created and reviewed by web-features owners, peers, and contributors.

This work is coordinated and supported by members of the [WebDX Community Group](webdx-cg).

## Learn more

To learn more about the background of Baseline, its goals, audience, and more, see the [full Baseline definition](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/blob/main/docs/baseline.md).
