docs/guidelines.md, before:

# Feature guidelines

## Names

The `name` field contains the feature's human-readable plain-text name.

Feature authors should (in descending order of priority):

- Prefer names known to be in widespread use by web developers.
  Favor describing things as they are most-widely known, even if it's not the most technically correct option.

  - 👍 Recommended: JavaScript
  - 👎 Not recommended: ECMAScript
  - 👍 Recommended: Declarative shadow DOM
  - 👎 Not recommended: `shadowrootmode` attribute

- Avoid prefixes that mark a feature as specific to a technology, such as CSS, HTML, or JavaScript.
  Features can and do cross such boundaries.

  - 👍 Recommended: Container queries
  - 👎 Not recommended: CSS container queries
  - 👍 Recommended: `<dialog>`
  - 👎 Not recommended: HTML `<dialog>`

- Avoid frequently-used abbreviations and nouns, such as API and Web.

  - 👍 Recommended: Async clipboard
  - 👎 Not recommended: Async clipboard API
  - 👍 Recommended: Workers
  - 👎 Not recommended: Web workers

- Prefer common, descriptive noun phrases over abbreviations, metonymy, and syntax.

  - 👍 Recommended: Offscreen canvas
  - 👎 Not recommended: `OffscreenCanvas`
  - 👍 Recommended: Grid
  - 👎 Not recommended: `display: grid`

- Prefer frequently-used qualifiers in parentheses at the end of the name.

  - 👍 Recommended: Arrays (initial support)
  - 👎 Not recommended: Initial support for arrays

- Prefer shorter names to longer names, as long as they're unique and unambiguous.

  - 👍 Recommended: `:has()`
  - 👎 Not recommended: `:has()` pseudo-class
  - 👍 Recommended: `<dialog>`
  - 👎 Not recommended: `<dialog>` element

## Identifiers

A feature's identifier is the feature's filename before the `.yml` extension.

Feature identifiers must contain only lowercase alphanumeric characters (a-z and 0-9) plus the `-` character (hyphen or minus sign) as a word separator.

The identifier should match the name, with these additional guidelines:

- Prefer shorter identifiers to longer identifiers, by avoiding common qualifiers and repeated words.

  - 👍 Recommended: `aborting`
  - 👎 Not recommended: `abort-controller-and-abort-signal`
  - 👍 Recommended: `arrays`
  - 👎 Not recommended: `arrays-initial-support`
  - 👍 Recommended: `fullscreen`
  - 👎 Not recommended: `fullscreen-api`
  - 👍 Recommended: `user-pseudos`
  - 👎 Not recommended: `user-valid-and-user-invalid`

## Descriptions

The `description` field contains a short description of the feature in Markdown-formatted text, which is converted to HTML in the published package.
Follow the general writing guidelines in this section, but see the [word and phrase list](#word-and-phrase-list) for specific usage instructions.

* Describe, in the active voice, what a feature does or is.
  Think about how developers will use it, not abstract technology relationships.
  Start with a template like this:

  - `The <property> <sets> the <noun>.`
  - `The <interface> <verbs> the <noun>.`
  - `The <type> represents <nouns>.`
  - `<format> is a <kind> or <variety>`.

* Description text must stand alone.
  It should not refer to text, images, or other content outside the short description.
  Try reading the sentence aloud.
  Does it still make sense without mentioning the name or ID?

* Enclose literal code, such as CSS property names, interface and method names, or other syntax, in backticks.
  For example, prefer ```The `addEventListener()` method…``` and avoid ```The addEventListener() method…```.

* Start descriptions with words that are distinct to the feature.
  For example, prefer "The `some-prop` CSS property…" and avoid "The CSS property `some-prop`…."

* Avoid circular descriptions.
  For example, prefer "The `filter()` method returns the items…" over "The `filter()` method filters the items…."

* It's OK to use the second person ("you", "your", and "yours") to refer to the audience when needed.
  For example, "The interface allows you to…."
  ([#738](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/742))

* Never mention support or standards status.
  This information *will* go out of date and sooner than you think.

* For every rule, there's a counterexample.
  Use your best judgement before writing something absurd.

### Word and phrase list

#### allows

OK in usage such as "allows you to…."
Avoid where there is no named actor, as in "the feature allows magic to happen."
([#738](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/738#discussion_r1537760761))

You can often omit it with gerunds.
For example, prefer "The widget sends…" over "The widget allows sending…."

#### also known as

Use this phrase to call attention to other names this feature has gone by.
Use it at the start of a sentence at the end of the description.
For example:

 > The `some-property` CSS property sets the … value. Also known as `<alias>`.
([#628](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/628/files/a9898862cb631c83ea16f1233b3c5c4353bf7a52#r1516293423))

#### declaration

For CSS, use _declaration_ to refer to property-value pairs.
For example, prefer "The `some-property: none` CSS declaration…" over The `some-property: none` CSS property value…."
([#969](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/969))

#### defines

Avoid.
See [sets](#sets).
([#727](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/727#discussion_r1537635491))

#### determines

Avoid.
See [sets](#sets).
([#727](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/727#discussion_r1537635491))

#### device

Use "device" to refer to the underlying operating system or hardware environment, or combination thereof.
This is to avoid cumbersome phrases like "the operating system or hardware" or specifically enumerating Linux, macOS, and Windows.
For example, write "the device UI" not the "operating system UI."
([#810](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/810))

#### elements

Avoid "element" in reference to things that are not HTML elements.
For example, an array of objects has "items", not "elements."
([#750](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/750#discussion_r1543011420))

#### enables

Avoid, except in the sense of to turn on or activate.
See [allows](#allows).
([#750](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/750#discussion_r1547382081))

#### for example

Don't use it as a coordinating conjunction; start a new sentence instead.
For example, this is an example.
([#738](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/738#discussion_r1537762579), [#742](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/742))

#### is used to

Omit "is used" where there's no loss in meaning.
For example, prefer "The feature reads…" over "The feature is used to read…"
([#727](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/727#discussion_r1537635981))

#### platform

"platform" is often vague.
Avoid using it by itself.
Instead, prefer more complete phrases that make it clear which platform you're referring to, such as "the web platform."

#### provides

Avoid, especially with gerunds.
For example, prefer the "The feature writes to…" over "The feature provides writing to…."
([#727](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/727#discussion_r1537635491))

#### sets

Prefer this over multisyllabic alternatives, such as "defines", "determines", or "specifies".
Use "The property sets…" but never "The property defines…."
([#727](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/727#discussion_r1537635491))

#### specifies

Avoid.
See [sets](#sets).
([#727](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/727#discussion_r1537635491))

#### styling … as … by default

Use this phrase (or using another appropriate preposition, such as "styling in") to note conventional or standardized default styling.
The ellipses stand in for the thing being styled (e.g., "text") and the style itself (e.g., "italic").
Use it before [_also known as_ text](#also-known-as).
For example:

 > The `<small>` element represents side-comments and small print, like copyright and legal text, styling text in a reduced font size by default.
 
 ([#1403](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/1403), [#1379](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/1379))

#### usage

Never use "usage" in the sense of "using."
For example, instead of "The `input()` method enables the usage of…" write "The `input()` method uses…."
([#753](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/753#discussion_r1560914869))

It's OK to use "usage" only in the sense of "consumption" (as in "mobile data usage") or "customary practice" (as in "the style guide's usage recommendations").

#### `window`

Because `window` is both the global object and represents the browser window, there are cases where it makes sense to refer to either `window.<name>` or `<name>` (such as `window.fetch()` or `fetch()`).
Use the most customary reference in each case.
If you're not sure what's customary, look to high-profile published examples, such as those on MDN reference pages for the feature.
([#913](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/913#discussion_r1572601975))

Commit message:

Contributor docs: suggest a general style reference
Prompted by https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/1619#discussion_r1729028492

docs/guidelines.md, after:

# Feature guidelines

## Names

The `name` field contains the feature's human-readable plain-text name.

Feature authors should (in descending order of priority):

- Prefer names known to be in widespread use by web developers.
  Favor describing things as they are most-widely known, even if it's not the most technically correct option.

  - 👍 Recommended: JavaScript
  - 👎 Not recommended: ECMAScript
  - 👍 Recommended: Declarative shadow DOM
  - 👎 Not recommended: `shadowrootmode` attribute

- Avoid prefixes that mark a feature as specific to a technology, such as CSS, HTML, or JavaScript.
  Features can and do cross such boundaries.

  - 👍 Recommended: Container queries
  - 👎 Not recommended: CSS container queries
  - 👍 Recommended: `<dialog>`
  - 👎 Not recommended: HTML `<dialog>`

- Avoid frequently-used abbreviations and nouns, such as API and Web.

  - 👍 Recommended: Async clipboard
  - 👎 Not recommended: Async clipboard API
  - 👍 Recommended: Workers
  - 👎 Not recommended: Web workers

- Prefer common, descriptive noun phrases over abbreviations, metonymy, and syntax.

  - 👍 Recommended: Offscreen canvas
  - 👎 Not recommended: `OffscreenCanvas`
  - 👍 Recommended: Grid
  - 👎 Not recommended: `display: grid`

- Prefer frequently-used qualifiers in parentheses at the end of the name.

  - 👍 Recommended: Arrays (initial support)
  - 👎 Not recommended: Initial support for arrays

- Prefer shorter names to longer names, as long as they're unique and unambiguous.

  - 👍 Recommended: `:has()`
  - 👎 Not recommended: `:has()` pseudo-class
  - 👍 Recommended: `<dialog>`
  - 👎 Not recommended: `<dialog>` element

## Identifiers

A feature's identifier is the feature's filename before the `.yml` extension.

Feature identifiers must contain only lowercase alphanumeric characters (a-z and 0-9) plus the `-` character (hyphen or minus sign) as a word separator.

The identifier should match the name, with these additional guidelines:

- Prefer shorter identifiers to longer identifiers, by avoiding common qualifiers and repeated words.

  - 👍 Recommended: `aborting`
  - 👎 Not recommended: `abort-controller-and-abort-signal`
  - 👍 Recommended: `arrays`
  - 👎 Not recommended: `arrays-initial-support`
  - 👍 Recommended: `fullscreen`
  - 👎 Not recommended: `fullscreen-api`
  - 👍 Recommended: `user-pseudos`
  - 👎 Not recommended: `user-valid-and-user-invalid`

## Descriptions

The `description` field contains a short description of the feature in Markdown-formatted text, which is converted to HTML in the published package.
Follow the general writing guidelines in this section, but see the [word and phrase list](#word-and-phrase-list) for specific usage instructions.

* Describe, in the active voice, what a feature does or is.
  Think about how developers will use it, not abstract technology relationships.
  Start with a template like this:

  - `The <property> <sets> the <noun>.`
  - `The <interface> <verbs> the <noun>.`
  - `The <type> represents <nouns>.`
  - `<format> is a <kind> or <variety>`.

* Description text must stand alone.
  It should not refer to text, images, or other content outside the short description.
  Try reading the sentence aloud.
  Does it still make sense without mentioning the name or ID?

* Enclose literal code, such as CSS property names, interface and method names, or other syntax, in backticks.
  For example, prefer ```The `addEventListener()` method…``` and avoid ```The addEventListener() method…```.

* Start descriptions with words that are distinct to the feature.
  For example, prefer "The `some-prop` CSS property…" and avoid "The CSS property `some-prop`…."

* Avoid circular descriptions.
  For example, prefer "The `filter()` method returns the items…" over "The `filter()` method filters the items…."

* It's OK to use the second person ("you", "your", and "yours") to refer to the audience when needed.
  For example, "The interface allows you to…."
  ([#738](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/742))

* Never mention support or standards status.
  This information *will* go out of date and sooner than you think.

* For every rule, there's a counterexample.
  Use your best judgement before writing something absurd.

### Word and phrase list

For general usage recommendations not covered by this list, such word choice or punctuation, refer to the [Microsoft Writing Style Guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/welcome/).

#### allows

OK in usage such as "allows you to…."
Avoid where there is no named actor, as in "the feature allows magic to happen."
([#738](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/738#discussion_r1537760761))

You can often omit it with gerunds.
For example, prefer "The widget sends…" over "The widget allows sending…."

#### also known as

Use this phrase to call attention to other names this feature has gone by.
Use it at the start of a sentence at the end of the description.
For example:

 > The `some-property` CSS property sets the … value. Also known as `<alias>`.
([#628](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/628/files/a9898862cb631c83ea16f1233b3c5c4353bf7a52#r1516293423))

#### declaration

For CSS, use _declaration_ to refer to property-value pairs.
For example, prefer "The `some-property: none` CSS declaration…" over The `some-property: none` CSS property value…."
([#969](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/969))

#### defines

Avoid.
See [sets](#sets).
([#727](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/727#discussion_r1537635491))

#### determines

Avoid.
See [sets](#sets).
([#727](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/727#discussion_r1537635491))

#### device

Use "device" to refer to the underlying operating system or hardware environment, or combination thereof.
This is to avoid cumbersome phrases like "the operating system or hardware" or specifically enumerating Linux, macOS, and Windows.
For example, write "the device UI" not the "operating system UI."
([#810](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/810))

#### elements

Avoid "element" in reference to things that are not HTML elements.
For example, an array of objects has "items", not "elements."
([#750](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/750#discussion_r1543011420))

#### enables

Avoid, except in the sense of to turn on or activate.
See [allows](#allows).
([#750](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/750#discussion_r1547382081))

#### for example

Don't use it as a coordinating conjunction; start a new sentence instead.
For example, this is an example.
([#738](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/738#discussion_r1537762579), [#742](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/742))

#### is used to

Omit "is used" where there's no loss in meaning.
For example, prefer "The feature reads…" over "The feature is used to read…"
([#727](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/727#discussion_r1537635981))

#### platform

"platform" is often vague.
Avoid using it by itself.
Instead, prefer more complete phrases that make it clear which platform you're referring to, such as "the web platform."

#### provides

Avoid, especially with gerunds.
For example, prefer the "The feature writes to…" over "The feature provides writing to…."
([#727](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/727#discussion_r1537635491))

#### sets

Prefer this over multisyllabic alternatives, such as "defines", "determines", or "specifies".
Use "The property sets…" but never "The property defines…."
([#727](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/727#discussion_r1537635491))

#### specifies

Avoid.
See [sets](#sets).
([#727](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/727#discussion_r1537635491))

#### styling … as … by default

Use this phrase (or using another appropriate preposition, such as "styling in") to note conventional or standardized default styling.
The ellipses stand in for the thing being styled (e.g., "text") and the style itself (e.g., "italic").
Use it before [_also known as_ text](#also-known-as).
For example:

 > The `<small>` element represents side-comments and small print, like copyright and legal text, styling text in a reduced font size by default.
 
 ([#1403](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/1403), [#1379](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/1379))

#### usage

Never use "usage" in the sense of "using."
For example, instead of "The `input()` method enables the usage of…" write "The `input()` method uses…."
([#753](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/753#discussion_r1560914869))

It's OK to use "usage" only in the sense of "consumption" (as in "mobile data usage") or "customary practice" (as in "the style guide's usage recommendations").

#### `window`

Because `window` is both the global object and represents the browser window, there are cases where it makes sense to refer to either `window.<name>` or `<name>` (such as `window.fetch()` or `fetch()`).
Use the most customary reference in each case.
If you're not sure what's customary, look to high-profile published examples, such as those on MDN reference pages for the feature.
([#913](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pull/913#discussion_r1572601975))
