docs/publishing.md, before:

# Publishing

## `@next` releases

The [`publish_next_` GitHub Actions workflows](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/tree/main/.github/workflows) automatically publish pre-releases on push to the main branch using the `next` [npm dist tag](https://docs.npmjs.com/adding-dist-tags-to-packages).
You can install these prereleases using a command such as `npm install web-features@next`.

## Secrets

> [!NOTE]
> This information is for [project owners](../GOVERNANCE.md#roles-and-responsibilities).

Publishing requires the `NPM_TOKEN` repository secret (set via _Settings_ → _Secrets and variables_ → _Actions_).
If you're replacing this token, then use the following settings:

| Setting                          | Value                                                                                                      |
| -------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Token type                       | _Granular Access Token_                                                                                    |
| Expiration                       | The first day of the next quarter (1 January, 1 April, 1 July, or 1 October) or the first weekday after it |
| Packages and scopes permsissions | _Read and write_                                                                                           |
| Select packages                  | _Only select packages and scopes_                                                                          |
| Select packages and scopes       | `compute-baseline` and `web-features`                                                                      |
| Organizations                    | _No access_                                                                                                |

Commit message:

Document how to make a web-features release (#1560)
Co-authored-by: Daniel D. Beck <daniel@ddbeck.com>

docs/publishing.md, after:

# Publishing

## Regular releases

> [!NOTE]
> This information is for [project owners](../GOVERNANCE.md#roles-and-responsibilities).

These are the steps to publish a regular release on NPM and as a GitHub release:

- Determine if it should be a major, minor, or patch release. The "[major version required](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+label%3A%22major+version+required%22+sort%3Aupdated-desc)" and "[minor version required](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+label%3A%22minor+version+required%22+sort%3Aupdated-desc)" labels should be used to support this decision.
- Update `packages/web-features/package.json` and `packages/web-features/package-lock.json` in a PR and get review.
- Merge the PR and draft a new release at https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/releases/new
- Fill in the tag name `vX.Y.Z` manually as both the tag and release title
- For major releases, add a "Breaking Changes" section up top.
- For minor releases, add a "What's New" section up top.
- Click "Generate release notes"
- Search for "<" and make sure all element names are quoted with backquotes
- Remove all lines from Dependabot
- Publish the GitHub release

Publishing the GitHub release creates the tag. This triggers the [Publish web-features GitHub Actions workflows](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/blob/main/.github/workflows/publish_web-features.yml), uploads GitHub release artifacts and publishes the package to NPM.

## `@next` releases

The [Publish web-features@next GitHub Actions workflows](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/blob/main/.github/workflows/publish_next_web-features.yml) automatically publish pre-releases on push to the main branch using the `next` [npm dist tag](https://docs.npmjs.com/adding-dist-tags-to-packages).
You can install these prereleases using a command such as `npm install web-features@next`.

## Secrets

> [!NOTE]
> This information is for [project owners](../GOVERNANCE.md#roles-and-responsibilities).

Publishing requires the `NPM_TOKEN` repository secret (set via _Settings_ → _Secrets and variables_ → _Actions_).
If you're replacing this token, then use the following settings:

| Setting                          | Value                                                                                                      |
| -------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Token type                       | _Granular Access Token_                                                                                    |
| Expiration                       | The first day of the next quarter (1 January, 1 April, 1 July, or 1 October) or the first weekday after it |
| Packages and scopes permsissions | _Read and write_                                                                                           |
| Select packages                  | _Only select packages and scopes_                                                                          |
| Select packages and scopes       | `compute-baseline` and `web-features`                                                                      |
| Organizations                    | _No access_                                                                                                |
